Hello everyone and welcome to the document object model section of the course.
In this section we're going to be learning about the document object model or DCOM Domm and the document
object model is going to allow us to interface our javascript code to directly interactive.
H Tim Allen CSSA on a web page.
So far we've already learned that have a pretty good understanding of the three main front end technologies.
That's simple for the web site content CSSA for the styling of that content and then javascript which
can interact with the Web site each TMLC assess and actually manipulate what you see on the page.
Well we actually don't know how to do yet is how to really connect that javascript with H.M.S. assess
how can we use javascript to directly interact with the H.M.S. assess and change what the user is actually
seeing.
Well browsers will construct the document object model which basically means storing all the HTL tags
as javascript objects.
Let me show you a very simple example of this imagine I have some very basic H-2.
Over here on the left hand side I have a head a title which is just my title in in the body.
I have a heading 1 and then an anchor tag.
Web Site Link and then right below that on the left hand side is what this would look like in the browser
it would just be a heading and then some link text there.
When I upload this in my browser what happens is my browser creates this document object model and I
can already see how this looks like a javascript object so I have the element the aged him l the head
the title the text and I can actually grab things from the document object model using javascript so
we can see the DOMA or dom of any web site so you can go to Web site and in the consul type document
to see the actual document object model.
Now we're going to be doing that in this lecture later on and that will return the text of the page
to see the actual objects you want to use counsel that Diyar and then pasand document this document
object model will allow us to use javascript to actually interact with the web page and affect him and
see us on the web page.
Now keep in mind the document object model is enormous.
It has tons of properties it's a huge object but most developers won't use all the properties.
Not even close to all the properties.
But we're going to be covering the most common objects use and I want you to be prepared for the unknown.
When you first see the docking object model it's going to seem really intimidating and there's all these
properties and you'll feel like there's no way you'll ever have be able to memorize all of them.
And that's not really the point you don't have to memorize all of them.
We have to do is have an understanding of how it works that way.
When you need something that you haven't encountered yet you have the capability to reference it on
your own and look for help on your own.
So let's continue we're actually exploring this idea in the browser and afterwards in the next lecture
we're going to go through an example of using javascript with the document object model.
So let me help over to my browser and kind of show you realistically what the heck I've been talking
about.
OK so here I am at Instagram dot com.
You can really choose any web site for this exercise or this example.
And hopefully now you can kind of see based off just what Instagram looks like at this moment in time.
You probably already have the ability to mockup something that looks pretty similar to this just with
H TMLC SS and bootstrap.
You already know how to create forms how to create nav bars etc..
But let's continue on and talk about the actual thing we came here for which is the document object
model where you can do.
And you can do this on any page.
It has to be Instagram.
Right click then inspect and then come to the console.
And what you're going to do is show us clear the console.
You may have some messages here the website you're visiting but worry about them just clear the console
and let's explore the document object model.
Now if I just type in the variable document and hit enter I will actually get as an output the time
else on this page so I can see here there's a body and I can keep expanding this to end up seeing some
scripts maybe I want to see these divs cetera.
Eventually I'll see the forms but that's not actually what I want to see.
What we want to see is this entire document so all the T.M. and its properties as a javascript object.
And to do that I can say console got DJR and then passen the document I enter and now we see document.
And if I expand it I get what looks like and basically is a javascript object or you have all these
various properties and their values.
And here I can actually then using javascript Rabbe properties from this web page and then edit their
values to actually create changes that appear to the user on the front end.
And that's basically the idea behind the document object model.
This is what's going to allow you to use javascript to actually manipulate what the user sees on the
web page.
And this is going to be the big leap forward for us to end our understanding of how the front end actually
works.
So far we have all the puzzle pieces but we haven't really put them together the document object model
is what's going to allow us to put them all together and actually see how the front end fully collaborates
with javascript.
H.M.S. assess making that powerful front and stack really shine and really work OK.
So that's all I want to cover for this lecture and the next lecture we're actually going to show you
an example of how you can affect this document object model using javascript.
All right thanks everyone and I'll see you at the next lecture.